Deena Larsen: Think Lena heston.
Jules Chatelain: Thank you.
Deena Larsen: I don't care.
Deena Larsen: Well, this is more for hannah's benefit, but shall we go through the slides just because they were fun anyway oh.
Jules Chatelain: No, we should totally go through the slides, because this is that we learned a lot and ISIS for people who want to do other ones okay.
Deena Larsen: and improve this Okay, so we will, I will start sharing my screen and we will introduce what right pods.
Deena Larsen: And I think.
Deena Larsen: Just to make sure, are you guys.
Deena Larsen: Seeing the plot.
yeah presentation.
Deena Larsen: Okay.
Deena Larsen: Yes, we are well.
Deena Larsen: Jules Lyle and I thought you know it's been a long time since we were doing writing as workshops.
Deena Larsen: writers workshops happen all the time and I, and I think Jules as well did some way back in the 90s, and of course we had cyber mountain in 1999 so there's a long.
Deena Larsen: history of writers workshops within electronic literature new media.
Deena Larsen: So we thought okay let's do right parts which are that i'm the writer reader interactions to engage platforms opening destinations, they also kind of.
Deena Larsen: play on the pods the bubbles that everyone has had for COPA, so we were thinking let's do a very small writers group, these do need to be limited.
Deena Larsen: And I had an agenda and I don't have my stopwatch so you know we'll see what happens, but I thought my intro take a few minutes, and then we could get the participants intro what we got out of it what's next and suggestions for next time, how would we want to do this.
Deena Larsen: I know, everybody wants to do it again and we'll see how, but basically we had a wonderful white pod we had six folks and.
Deena Larsen: Each creator prepares an excerpt from their work that will take up to 30 minutes to engage with.
Deena Larsen: and explains how to access it but doesn't give us any more information than that and that is so critical because that way we can approach the work.
Deena Larsen: As a writer as a reader what you know we're just stumbling upon the link we don't know what's going on how does this work so as you can see me at margarine by Dan yay seven sisters met by Lyle you can buy johana um but, again, you can read it as a reader would we had Richard hilton's.
Deena Larsen: Here we are the works by people who are actually here now right yeah yeah so we're just celebrating you guys.
Deena Larsen: um feel free to talk in the chat about these things too, but I just wanted to give a shout out to all the wonderful works, we had.
Jules Chatelain: Right so there's richards and there's clara's okay got it yeah.
Deena Larsen: And then we are yes and richards.
Deena Larsen: onions and carrots.
Deena Larsen: Okay, here we all are, in our meeting and you guys have no idea how long it took me to find a zoom where we were all actually looking at the camera and somewhat smiling that was tough.
Deena Larsen: But Okay, we got it, so the idea was that we would.
Deena Larsen: it's not that much of a time commitment is about an eight hour day, an hour to plan it to figure out what we want to do.
Deena Larsen: To to our reactions and, of course, the half hour requirement to read everyone's work and to react to it, and I know I know we all spend a lot more time on each other's work on that, but we did want to have a minimum time.
Deena Larsen: A time commitment, and we did want to keep it as minimal as possible, so we have very strict timing in our meetings.
Deena Larsen: We have two minutes for each reader interaction and 20 minutes for each writer, to ask questions and to clarify.
Deena Larsen: And we wanted to make it so that it was read actions not right actions so okay i'm coming a process as a lover of digital fiction of if of.
Deena Larsen: Electronic literature how am I reading this piece, what do I see and for most of us we kept a journal.
Deena Larsen: On the side it's okay i'm going to this slide and I see this, and I think that, so it was able to, we were able to track our reader reactions and listen to learn that did take longer than half an hour.
Jules Chatelain: um I love these jokes.
Jules Chatelain: reductionism promise, this is, thank you.
Deena Larsen: That was a promise.
Jules Chatelain: you're you're shifting between two words okay promise promise it's great okay.
Deena Larsen: um so we did find value in this, these were what we heard back and we'll talk about this more, but you know we got to see sneak previews of people's works this, these are the ads, these are the benefits.
Deena Larsen: We got to brainstorm the back ends we got international insights which were really important actually, especially now that we have international audiences.
Deena Larsen: We got to explore and test and prototype it was very fun to figure out what we can do.
Deena Larsen: is also very important to prototype before you spend a lot of tedious hours doing something that doesn't work.
Deena Larsen: i'm.
Deena Larsen: or observations on the process confidentiality is key yeah, even though we were recording we all made a promise those recordings will not escape into the real world.
Deena Larsen: um we learn how to moderate how to react process bandwidth is important, respecting for zoom for people who don't have the bandwidth was was key and now we also want to try to find a way to exhibit the work, since we have not done and that kind of segues into the ideas for next time.
Deena Larsen: Which is.
Deena Larsen: We were trying to keep it to advice, just for the reader point of view it's we all come to this we all are really experienced at different technologies, and it is important to be able to give that.
Deena Larsen: Try this advice for technology and for structure but it might be helpful to just add a tech pod session for help with that platform.
Deena Larsen: So that we can all get together and say oh yeah let's do that in the work session, you know and invite people in for the who have expertise in the coding and things like that that'll help.
Deena Larsen: Oh, we could raise the bar, we could have longer pods For those of you who are interested, we do want to have like a creator statement after we read the work so it's like oh that's what you wanted it Okay, I get that so lots of things we can do.
Deena Larsen: um and then the writers, we want to do it again I think every you know if you guys didn't want to do it again, you would be.
Deena Larsen: To do again.
Jules Chatelain: It does they haven't nobody's agreed to do it again, but I.
Deena Larsen: think it was agreed to do again what we say, is.
Jules Chatelain: The model has value, especially as we've improved it.
Deena Larsen: Okay, as we, as we said in the Salon one it was a successful pilot.
Right.
Jules Chatelain: Yes, that's that's.
Deena Larsen: that's a successful pilot let's see what we can do um it does make a lot of work and moderators are very important writers, are important readers are important.
Deena Larsen: Well, and this is all, as is every single thing else in this electronic literature, a Labor of love and a Labor of addiction so.
Deena Larsen: let's see what we can do i'm here are our participants, and I want to stay on the screen for a while, so that it's really clear, but we do have.
Deena Larsen: Dan Walker was great post back post box or a researcher at elo i'm correct a big fan of electronic literature tick tock Carla Clara who's here sorry good morning associates art professor at nyu game Center scholar designer and writer samia bravo Roy.
Deena Larsen: Basically, the person for elo for electronic literature in India currently finishing his ma he actually finished yesterday raw yay whoo.
Jules Chatelain: Good samia for.
Deena Larsen: For that oh look at his paper it's really cool the.
Deena Larsen: nc says deals with the electronic literature electronic literature writing in India on the transcriber of the Canterbury tales project.
Deena Larsen: needs to sit with 30 has been up since two o'clock our time this morning and I don't think he slept in the last 24 hours four hours because he did the darcy the program that was on earlier this morning i'm contributors to Elsa.
Deena Larsen: and yellow electronic literature India johana is working to get the African digital literature going.
Deena Larsen: And let's see i've been an attic forever.
Deena Larsen: While skin, while our teachers creative digital writing and science communication she's also working really hard on commercialization she's conducted the practice based research into writing reading playing publishing digital media.
Deena Larsen: Science communication Jules has been helping inventors has been a process guru.
Deena Larsen: usability guru forever has a wonderful.
Deena Larsen: By old which she's going to put into the chat.
Deena Larsen: And Richard.
Deena Larsen: Of course figure us.
Deena Larsen: figure ascii I find her on acid it's now available on the web yay and writing awards for fellowships from adele and the National Endowment for the arts and findhorn i'm so sorry I always get that wrong.
Deena Larsen: is OK, but figure housekeeping torn on acid.
Jules Chatelain: that's what yeah you've gotta yeah.
Deena Larsen: I just.
Richard Holeton: Keep that was supposed to be in the bio that was just a note for you, if you were reading it.
Deena Larsen: Well that's because I read it wrong.
Jules Chatelain: So Richard metadata is fun okay.
Deena Larsen: That was mine.
Deena Larsen: Now we can talk.
Deena Larsen: About adjustments for next time.
Deena Larsen: What do you reckon what was good about it, what would you improve this was also our last lessons learned session too so it's kind of Nice that this one's being recorded for posterity on vimeo.
Deena Larsen: i'll open up the floor wow and also Jules is going to put in a on the chat the PDF to the process that you developed.
Jules Chatelain: Okay um it's it's it's on github but if that's a little hard for people, I will.
Deena Larsen: Put put.
Deena Larsen: Put the link and put it in Okay, and I can stop sharing now yay.
Deena Larsen: Thank you guys.
Okay.
Deena Larsen: Oh.
Jules Chatelain: You are going to invite each of the participants.
Jules Chatelain: let's invite you to the.
Jules Chatelain: participants to sort of take two or three minutes and just say whatever you would like to say about your ideas how this was for you and anything you would like you think should be recorded about it.
Deena Larsen: Right, and I think, since we have time we're not gonna i'm not gonna sit here with a little timer thing.
Jules Chatelain: So okay so and you have to call on them because they don't know what order to go in.
Deena Larsen: You don't know.
Jules Chatelain: I would like you to choose to call.
Deena Larsen: Her on my screen Clara is first okay.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Okay, so yeah I didn't have a thing that this was a lovely experience you know what I share the things i've been writing kind of for me.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: for fun, you know something that started as an example for students is kind of became its own project.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And you know, for me, it was important to kind of first get out of my circles, you know I have plenty of people that can share work with when it's games.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: i'm probably like also interactive which, in which a half, but I think that that kind of coming to the kind of electronic literature Community was a kind of breath of fresh air.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Just because I kind of know what they're going to say and and in a way was kind of like a sanity check and it was really nice to kind of go out of.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Those circles of thing, but having different people to to share your work with that might not be just your friends, is a way of saying like how how far can this work at.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And you know this was this was part of the slides to, but I think that having you know, working with people from all over the world and seeing what other people are doing.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And kind of seeing the variety and seeing how how you know my work and fit in that wider thing, and I think that also like because I think most of us were sharing work that was kind of.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Driven by by our own interest it's not something that we're doing for research or for your commercial publication our, for you know, like getting a grant or anything it's like it's something that we're doing and in our copious spare time.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: for ourselves and for others right, and I think that that was it was great to find other people doing the same, and then, but in.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Any way, like everybody was doing work that was so so different that that finding the commonality was yeah but that these were kind of passion projects in a way.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: um but you know, in a in a space where it's a bit different from you know this, this kind of pandemic urge to make your hobby something you know profitable.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know, or something like you can you know learn whatever it's like no we're just doing this for our soul and I think that that finding.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Different words that were for our saw was kind of important, so the feedback was really great i've addressed a lot of the things that that popped up.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And my goal is that at the end of June to release what I shared plus the kind of origins of it but kind of i'm trying to kind of packaging it, you know thing that.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: One thing is like the writing and the other is like making it look nice accessible have a kind of like proper artist statement and and also i'm i'm glad that I waited a bit because Emily laser Walker just published this twine rapper to release your trying games a standalone APP.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And it works through hit github which is my mortal enemy, but but i'm willing to.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: to learn how to do it and kind of like presented just like guess like I could present this nicely and professionally, but I think that I needed to feel like my heart was in the right place and just share my work so yeah it was great and I will do it again anytime.
Deena Larsen: yay, thank you for looking forward to you earlier today.
Deena Larsen: Richard.
Richard Holeton: Sure um well, so I think this was more than a pilot because it was an actual you know thing that that worked for all of us in in.
Richard Holeton: In reality, and first just you know dina and jewels just did a fabulous job.
Richard Holeton: organizing this and facilitating this and setting up the structure the ground rules, who has run so clearly and and and effectively a.
Richard Holeton: In jewels just brilliant at articulating and implementing you know process for responding I know that's something that you have you know lots of experience and expertise in and.
Richard Holeton: I mean, for me, I got all the you know I got the things that you get out of writing workshops in general, which include.
Richard Holeton: deadlines, which is one of the main reasons that I even went back to get graduate degrees is because of the deadline, you know deadlines make you finish stuff to show people.
Richard Holeton: Exposure to other people's other diverse works, besides your own and, of course, you know specific feedback about and suggestions.
Richard Holeton: From readers about about your own stuff so you know all those things just worked really well and plus in this case also which doesn't always happen, you know that camaraderie of a little bit of writer Community building in this case that one that was.
Richard Holeton: You know when across what four continents.
Richard Holeton: or so and that was part of the delight of it.
Richard Holeton: I don't know if you want to get into the suggestions for next time, right now, or not, but.
Richard Holeton: i'm on the side of well that this was really good so more is better.
Richard Holeton: And, and so, if a little bit is good, then a lot is you know it's better you know philosophy, I guess.
Richard Holeton: And so I would be on the side of I mean, I see that there's advantages to there were advantages to keeping the bar low in terms of you know kind of making the thing, accessible and and available and enticing to people but i'd be on the side of raising the bar and raising the expectations.
Richard Holeton: That is more time, you know just you know, instead of saying selling it as or it could be that there's different workshops that there's lower bar and higher bar yeah which is probably the way to think about it, but.
Richard Holeton: But uh instead of enticing people oh it's only going to take this amount of time say hey it's going to take an investment of time and you're going to get you know you get out of it, what you put into it.
Richard Holeton: You know we're all writers and, most of us have participated in writing workshops of various types, so you know suck you know I say soccer soccer to us and get people.
Richard Holeton: You know, it insists, or you know say yeah you're going to spend some time and the expectations for both for the amount of time you spend with work and the.
Richard Holeton: product that results, not just the discussion, and there I think the time constraints are super valuable where you, you know very structure, you know have that be very structured but say.
Richard Holeton: higher expectations for the written feedback that we provide you know that you're wanting to provide to each other, because I can find that those that can be really valuable.
Richard Holeton: So those are some of my some of my thoughts.
Deena Larsen: me cool Thank you yeah i'm still muted.
Deena Larsen: Myself muted.
Jules Chatelain: OK, you are not still muted.
Deena Larsen: All right, i'm week well, thank you, rich yeah and i'm thinking about those expectations and let's talk about that, but we also have some and then tools.
Samya Roy: yeah Hello everyone.
Samya Roy: So I got to know about right words from a random Facebook post, because I always have my eyes hooked on the yellow page what's happening what's happening.
Samya Roy: yeah so I saw this message, and the first thing that I instinctively email dina what do I need to send Do I need to send a CV I don't know if this is academic or something something.
Samya Roy: yeah and then I came to know which are the people that are participating in the damn thing and then I googled them and immediately I lost my cool that all okay fine, what are we doing this year i'm making a fool of us see the international circuit great.
Samya Roy: is full of vegetables, but well jokes aside, I had a lot of fun.
Samya Roy: I got to learn from some I should take the liberty of saying I gotta learn from the best, and it was a fantastic exercise and another thing that Richard also point out, it pointed out was.
Samya Roy: Deadlines because the thing that I have done is not something very I mean it doesn't involve a lot of technology it's something that I did sitting in my bedroom really.
Samya Roy: But it's an idea that was brewing in my head since 2019 and I just didn't have the time to do it so getting together and and.
Samya Roy: Expecting someone to read your work commenting your work, whether it is validation criticism, whatever you might want to call it.
Samya Roy: It also gives you a reason to finish your work and to think about it in a creative way in an academic way whatever way that might be it proved it's incredibly beneficial for me so that was a huge huge plus point and.
Samya Roy: The thing also about.
Samya Roy: Other people from different parts of the world coming together and looking at content, especially there was an incident with mine work, which I will let dina take over this is extremely funny.
Samya Roy: The thing with the number yeah, I would like to comment on that so yeah it was it was extremely fun for me yeah that was it and i'm always game for more things like this.
Deena Larsen: Yes, excellent yeah it's good points that you know that you're going to have quality readers reading your stuff you better health quality stuff.
Deena Larsen: So it's good to have that expectation Jules what.
Jules Chatelain: The problem in yes well and I.
Jules Chatelain: So i'm not an academic and i'm not primarily a creator I but i've been a fellow traveler so i've really enjoyed being a fellow traveler in this Community since 1989 and trying to think about what I could bring to the party at various points and in honor today I am wearing a.
Jules Chatelain: blouse that was chosen for me by a computer from stitch fix you know it's the type in some things in the computer, since you clothing, so I hated almost all of them.
Jules Chatelain: But this is something picked out for me by a computer that I actually surprisingly like and it Dean, it has its tactile stuff is right okay um and I.
Jules Chatelain: I am learning from this moment now because I didn't realize that each of you were doing sort of a personal heart project, you know.
Jules Chatelain: What Clara saying, and also, you know, Richard yours was very personal and it was kind of a response to the pandemic in a way, so it was felt very fresh and.
Jules Chatelain: samia I think you have come up with a new art form Okay, of the sending up a travelogue so sort of taking a travelogue and and.
Jules Chatelain: Doing so many different things, with it, that make it something completely other so it was just a privilege to sort of watch these being born okay and and obviously I do.
Jules Chatelain: Actually Dean it's it's hard for me to put things on the Internet while i'm in zoom, but I do want to say i've put everything into github.
Jules Chatelain: Including the most important chunky the three pages of instructions of here's exactly how to share your work and here's here's.
Jules Chatelain: And, and I totally take Richard I totally like your idea I think you can do anything with these as long as the agreements are up front like there could be the right pod for the people with no time.
Jules Chatelain: Okay, and then there could be the right pod that's almost like.
Jules Chatelain: McDowell without going to McDowell where it's a fairly serious commitment and everybody knows that it's just so that there's even though there's international.
Jules Chatelain: Participation there's equal amounts of effort and commitment is what matters.
Jules Chatelain: And I know Clara you said what what was fun was you work with you're immersed in games, so it was fun for you to have literature people looking at your game.
Jules Chatelain: Your literature game, in other words, you are also creating a new art form to and and but I don't know the field that you're working in as well, to say how it was new, but it seems completely fresh to me like a flavor i'd never had before so.
Jules Chatelain: Anyway, and I think that's mostly what I want to say so i'm I love talking about process.
Jules Chatelain: Many years ago, a friend of mine said here's for you contents just a crutch for people who can handle process now that is somewhat overstating it but anyway, thank you for the privilege of working with you guys and I would love to hear, we were.
Jules Chatelain: finishing, this is came and went Okay, but we are leaving this record for and we don't have to go the whole time if we want to go hit see or another panel, but we are leaving this record for people who might want to try it.
Jules Chatelain: themselves and and you know you just need and you just need an organizer and it probably works better if the organizer actually what we did with Lyle and dina and is that people didn't people didn't.
Jules Chatelain: chair their own reaction session, like you, can't possibly be the timer or anything like that, when your work being talked about and Lyle had a really good point.
Jules Chatelain: And Lyle and I had not worked together before but, but the one the thing that I do where I let the author manage their 20 minutes Okay, in other words the 20 minutes is.
Jules Chatelain: The the first two minutes from everyone is extremely closely controlled, and then we say author, what do you want to do for 20 minutes, and they can just.
Jules Chatelain: pour out how they've never been understood and no one's ever gotten them or they can ask specific questions about the tech I don't care, but like I said it's very important that that's a creator controlled section.
Jules Chatelain: Because that takes away sort of the the bullying of you go to a writing group and people just tell you stuff and you go home and cry or whatever so it's.
Jules Chatelain: i'll speak for myself, I go home and cry okay so anyway um so those were the important pieces that we captured and any people can take this and and remix it and we hope that they will so um and dina do you want to tell the story about the numbers, or you know.
Deena Larsen: Well i'll tell my story about the numbers because it is kind of funny um for 20 in the US was apocryphally the police code for marijuana.
Deena Larsen: And we have celebrations for marijuana on April 20 for 20 in the evening, and it was funny because some yes piece I can't quite remember where the number came into it.
Jules Chatelain: Oh, but for 20 in it.
Deena Larsen: yeah oh no, it was the old oh that's right, it was the only photo that had the date stamp on it.
Deena Larsen: So it was very clear and very emphasized, and it was taken it for 20 and I was like oh yeah that's definitely deliberate that was cute you like.
Deena Larsen: How did that put but savvy, can you tell the story also about for richards about of the ringing.
Samya Roy: yeah.
Samya Roy: So, so in richards fees, there was this character or dimension of the offering yeah so I I didn't I didn't have much background on it, because i'm not familiar with the context that he was going for.
Samya Roy: For me, it was very interesting because the wrong he if I look at it as a word that is something that is very important in Indian colonial history.
Samya Roy: Because the Indian natives used to call people who are white, as in the British colonial masters as Iranians now what does he mean around means color.
Samya Roy: We don't give means without color so it seemed that white white skin is something that is without color.
Samya Roy: And so the whites colonizers were called flunkies and when richards text reference this I was like okay that's cool you is.
Samya Roy: Does this mean this and we just said no doesn't mean this it means something totally different but for me it meant something else, so these cultural corner connotations are.
Samya Roy: very interesting at that that is why, having an intercontinental perspective really I we it gets all kinds of thoughts buzzing.
Richard Holeton: And we will start.
Richard Holeton: The star trek writers, who created the for Andy were aware aware of the cross cultural implications of that.
Richard Holeton: term because I got it from star trek so.
Deena Larsen: yeah yeah and I think that's so important to I think that was one of the major values of this was everybody had a very different perspective and we're coming from different.
Deena Larsen: backgrounds, even though we're all in the electronic literature community.
Deena Larsen: I think that was key.
Deena Larsen: This was a completely non elo sanctioned event.
Deena Larsen: forcibly reminded and i'm thinking i'm really wanted to ask folks first of all, do you think there would be a benefit in going to the yellow board saying hey sanction these things.
Deena Larsen: put it under your rubric keep it in your space.
Jules Chatelain: You mean like sponsor not oh sanction.
Deena Larsen: Thank God that's true yeah okay yeah so sponsor saying hey Yes, this is.
Deena Larsen: Part of our organization and.
Deena Larsen: You know kind of like the conferences.
Deena Larsen: you'd have to be a Member to join, or something and keep it as a member benefit part of that would support the yellow.
Deena Larsen: which you know, as you know, runs on a shoestring and so, and so forth, and samia you're developing an organization, the Indian yellow would it be good to have it as part of an organization or would it be good to have a just run wild like we kind of did.
Samya Roy: I think that it's important to have institutional support but.
Samya Roy: Especially for right pods I don't think it should be Member only because I think we should use right possess something to get people into writing electronic electronic mode.
Samya Roy: And if people get interested, they can join the yellow separately or someone like me, had it not been for my Community my the work that I got to do with tripods or my contributions with LM safe or.
Samya Roy: My.
Samya Roy: program review committing to the exhibition's I wouldn't have been able to pay for my Elf membership which I got to be in as a that enterprise of making sure that scholarships come our way, so I think that.
Samya Roy: Making this statement for people to contribute activity.
Samya Roy: so that they can be a part of the family, I believe it is as important as being a member, and I think that.
Samya Roy: Something like right pause channel the way to become a member and not say that if you are a member, you get parts, because people who are members already know these things.
Samya Roy: But people who are not they might need these in order to be introduced to these, I think that is more important because, had it not been I would have been added.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: yeah, if I may add to that, I mean that's some of my sins are working and not have games that would feel very comfortable at the allow.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And this might be the gateway for them to be aligned, so I did this, you know, rather than sending it, a thing that is kind of exposure to the kind of feedback and the kind of audience and that will get.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know, and working towards it, and you know, like what happened to me it's like changing the background of bed, and you know I consider yellow it's like it's another.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know communities, not my main thing but it's like home, you know basically my PhD but but for my students who might be a bit more different, but I think that is part of of my goal to make them realize that the world is bigger than games.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Because they they love games and they don't realize that the the other, so the median this other ways to look at this so so yeah I agree that that would be.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know one thing that that helps you know funnel people into the allow it, and if I can add just to bed.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: I think that it's also important to highlight the idea of the digital right pod I think that would be very nice to meet in person to having to.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: sharing the same product, it would be great um you know, an account you might not, but I think that, because of the format, because the sessions were.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: relatively short I mean like I think that by now, we spend so much time in zoom that spending like what two hours you know, like the session of two hours, and we were changing topics, and it was lively and it didn't it didn't feel tiring and I cannot say that if a lot of zoom calls.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: That that I think that it would be interesting to say like Okay, there is a format, maybe in person, we can do something that is bit longer.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: In it, but I think that the digital platform to still reach an international audience um you know people who might not be able to travel, for example, um that's another you know part of the kind of outreach that that could be done.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: So so yeah I think that that may be like thinking about like the out of the different kind of right parts, you know, like there might be right parts were like.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You did the digital thing and then you know as jewels was saying it's like you feel so terrible after the feedback when you just want to go and cry and you don't want to meet anybody.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: That are also advantages to do it digitally right.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: um but, but I think that the the platform and the delivery and thinking it as outreach.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: to people who might not know about the yellow people who might not have realized that they could share their work at the yellow.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: But also, you know students people who cannot travel or you know what travel can become an actual pain and you know and then just to keep it.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: accessible to like again like two hours that kind of like lower time commitment.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: made it very accessible and using zoom you know also made it super accessible to you so so there's no this different format, maybe that's you know for next year, we should try the comparison of like you know in person, if we can with with remote right box.
Deena Larsen: That makes a lot of sense and Claire I don't know if you know this, I ran writers workshops very similar to this, not so much with the process um for gosh I think I ran 10 or 15 of them.
For the indiana.
Deena Larsen: hypertext and I ran them through the digital and I I Richard I think you were at one of them.
Deena Larsen: I don't remember now I mean i'm like my God my mind is going because of this conference and everything else, but I ran about at least 10 of them, and they are really different in person, because you do get to like.
Deena Larsen: touch and feel the works and see them, I honestly, like the digital better in a way, because you could have the two channels of communication, you could have the chat you could see what's going on, it was easier to view.
Deena Larsen: Rather than in person and also like you're saying it was easier to have the convenience of it um and it was easier to get the access the the bar the bar to entry was a lot lower.
Deena Larsen: um it's still high, and semi you could talk to this as well, because you have to have a stable Internet connection, which makes life difficult.
Richard Holeton: way to think about it is not either or but.
Richard Holeton: Both both and.
Richard Holeton: When I was when I was teaching I tried to you know, would I would use face to face discussion, but often as a follow up to the online discussion, because then you can fill in the cracks and nuances and explore the things that came up online, and I mean you can take advantage of both.
Richard Holeton: Media for what they're you know better and worse at I guess.
Deena Larsen: We can.
Richard Holeton: I mean, I think the ideal thing to me as a combination, but.
Deena Larsen: You know what might work really well I don't know if we're ever going to see each other again in person, but if we had in online right pods.
Deena Larsen: Leading up to an in person conference and then at that in person conference still have the workshop you remember the one we did Hannah Oh, it was important, and I was there online actually and you were the one.
For.
Deena Larsen: moderating it face to face, we could still do something like that it worked out relatively well because that way, we also had if you could not come to the conference like I could not come to Porto, you still could participate.
Richard Holeton: In not to put Hannah on the spot, but since we have you in the audience if there's you know, do you have what you know you have questions or you know, or what your interests are add to our insights.
Richard Holeton: If, but you know don't.
Deena Larsen: I was also going to put him on the spot and say hey is there a potential nexus to Elsa to the cell into the databases, with this as well.
Deena Larsen: Because these are these are nascent works, they are not published, but we are looking for exhibit space, would there be a possibility for saying hey here's the works in progress and.
Hannah Ackermans: Maybe it depends on how much of it, you want to be public.
Deena Larsen: hmm guess.
Hannah Ackermans: If you put in an answer it's a it's sort of is a published work done.
Hannah Ackermans: Because, everyone can see.
Hannah Ackermans: And i'm guessing like you said in your presentation that you don't want to write books themselves to be publicly available.
Hannah Ackermans: I don't know if maybe you would like i'm just thinking out loud once the work is published, to also.
Hannah Ackermans: attach a document or have a link or anything to the right books, so that it's.
Hannah Ackermans: In the documentation announce it clear like what the process was that would be cool maybe.
Deena Larsen: I think so yeah.
Hannah Ackermans: then think it might depend on each individual work rather than.
Hannah Ackermans: This is what we do with redbox but i'm not.
Deena Larsen: Sure, maybe what we could do is like have the onset be these were like a keyword like these published works now so when Clara publishes her work she can Richard you can say hey it was developed with the right pot and have that connection.
Hannah Ackermans: yeah we have a field for technical notes and then you could put it there, you can also we have free tagging so you could put right, but as a.
Hannah Ackermans: tech, so that we could click on the right path and you would see all the works that have been developed in it.
Deena Larsen: Then the other question would be you know we could possibly do a.
Deena Larsen: Presentation next time.
Deena Larsen: of works that would be another deadline, the only way that i've ever gotten to work done is with the deadline and.
Deena Larsen: If we said okay in.
Deena Larsen: 2022 we're going to have a power.
Deena Larsen: A presentation of exhibits of works done in right part you know.
Deena Larsen: Like the covert expedition.
Deena Larsen: exposition exhibition the right part exhibition that might work.
Hannah Ackermans: Like yellow fringe.
Hannah Ackermans: Yes, exactly.
Deena Larsen: The yellow fringe but hunter, what do you think about like right parts does this make sense to you is there anything else we should explain.
Hannah Ackermans: It does make sense.
Hannah Ackermans: The only thing I didn't really get at the beginning, is the timeline how to do them.
Hannah Ackermans: Do you do them after each other or do you have like breakout groups and do them in parallel.
Jules Chatelain: I will email it to you because I will email it to you right now so.
Hannah Ackermans: Okay, thank.
Deena Larsen: You good good point and for the recording for the record the timeline which was we met and we planned in January, February.
Deena Larsen: ish Okay, and then we had our first and then the first three people who agreed to do to have their session had their works.
Deena Larsen: On email to us within a week and then we had three weeks to read them, so we met in March ish and then at the Marsh.
Deena Larsen: Writing workshop basically a week after we got the next three batches, and so we had three weeks to read those works and we met in April ish and i'm sure somebody has the actual dates things have been a bit much to my mind, after.
Deena Larsen: Five days of awards workshop.
Hannah Ackermans: that's very good to know so they they you have to timeframe, where you get to read the works I first understood it, as you get it on the day of the right parts and then you go into a work and discuss it afterwards, like it's like.
Deena Larsen: This yeah this works, the same way as the.
Deena Larsen: writers workshops, I was very privileged in the 90s to attend the northern Colorado science fiction writers workshops with ED bryant Connie willis you know.
Deena Larsen: Few people like that very high caliber and it was so it was modeled on that same timeline that you always have time to read the works, but it's also modeled on that commitment you.
Deena Larsen: These are very professional workshops, they are for folks who are dedicated writers and that might be an issue to employer, I wanted to talk to you about that, if some if we have students.
Deena Larsen: Do I think we should hold them to the same expectations.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: yeah and in the case of my students and we are in an art school and they are expected to hit deadlines and complete work so so.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Artistic practice, this has to be part of the habits, you know, rather than.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: i'm not looking at my students, so you know just computer sign up now, you have to finish your thing among at least like release it and put in front of people so in the case of of games students.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: it's part of what they have to be doing on ready so it's not that much different but that's that's also it depends on the school in depends on the on the background now if it was when I was studying literature.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: I would not have been expected, because that was soon as scholar Nada make it in a way, so it depends, but yeah it's not about the question samia you have any I think about.
Samya Roy: yeah I think the deadline is fine, I think the deadline is important to Kevin integrity as in that if if everyone else is getting a week.
Samya Roy: One person should not get two weeks, then that means there is no symmetry going on, but as far as the level of work is concerned, as far as.
Samya Roy: How good or how technically advanced or how rich your work is, I think that depends a lot on how experienced the writer is.
Samya Roy: How into the profession, the writer is so I think the deadline, the timeline is fine, but expectations can vary according to different people and how proficient they are in what they do.
Deena Larsen: And I think that level of proficiency can vary and it's good actually to have that different perspective as well in those different levels um there is one thing i'd like to bring up and Lena are wonderful students are you still there, because this one, we may not want recorded.
Deena Larsen: Okay we're on a recorded.
Jules Chatelain: come and gone okay yeah.
Deena Larsen: Okay, we are on a recorded line, and we can take this offline and we can speak in generalities um this was in my time of writing workshops, this was the first time i'd ever had to issue a warning about content.
Deena Larsen: And we did have one piece, which was.
Deena Larsen: disturbing.
Deena Larsen: Did we handle that Okay, we can talk just very much in generalities, or should we even reach the subject.
Deena Larsen: Because I think it would come up again.
Jules Chatelain: I learned a lot okay um and I don't think I handled everything perfectly and as the moderator and the good news is that we have the yellow code of conduct now, which we did not then Okay, so if it's.
Jules Chatelain: People if it's if it's related to the yellow at all you can say yellow.
Jules Chatelain: You can say we're using the yellow code of conduct in terms of material that say I mean i'll just use it an artificial example but let's say that it's that it's something about rape or genocide or something that a person might not want to be.
Jules Chatelain: Reading that you might want to know with we could actually have a right pod for all of the stuff was was.
Jules Chatelain: boundary breaking Okay, so it could be a right pod, especially for how to handle material that was really didn't.
Jules Chatelain: See I believe process can solve everything, this is wrong Okay, but this is my belief, but the point is, we had we had some material that was unexpectedly triggering.
Jules Chatelain: In terms of it sort of question my right to exist, you know, on the planet okay That was what I found triggering about so that the the arm.
Jules Chatelain: Anyway, so we, we want to have you know people know what they're signing up for going in and I think the yellow code of conduct will deal with that Okay, and I also think that it it's.
Jules Chatelain: Unfair thing that we also found by the way, let me get on the upside was that when people with low bandwidth people calling lean on their phones, I still want to make that.
Jules Chatelain: The input, I still want to make that happen, and what we found was we could get a really good experience with audio if, when it was the author was on their phone, we could just turn off our.
Jules Chatelain: screens, like the the video is not as important as the audio Samuel were you saying you agree with that and, in other words, I want to, I want to commit to to.
Jules Chatelain: Accessibility so maybe in a way, a positive way to say this is, we want the right parts to be more accessible and we want them to be safe and that's sort of an.
Jules Chatelain: important thing so.
Deena Larsen: yeah and I think just.
Deena Larsen: Having that yellow.
Deena Larsen: code of conduct would help um.
Deena Larsen: And yeah Richard I see your point about like the way of dickie volume to erotica.
Deena Larsen: and possibly something like.
Jules Chatelain: I should clearly read the chat okay.
Deena Larsen: yeah like the literary values of it um.
Jules Chatelain: Well, actually, I want to all I feel comfortable enough to say that so.
Jules Chatelain: um I one of the things that I have done as a tool maker is I do a one piece in each platform.
Jules Chatelain: So my stuff is not very good, but you know I did one thing and hypercar one thing and storage space, etc, etc, and my thing and storage space was erotica Okay, and many years later I showed it to mark bronstein and he sent it back with like notes and I was going I don't want notes mark.
Jules Chatelain: I just was showing it to you.
Jules Chatelain: Okay, and then later than that dina goes you miss read mark, she said, these notes mean he would have published it.
Jules Chatelain: pinches These are the kinds of notes mark gives you Okay, and so I missed my chance to be an East gate author, but I didn't really want you know i'm anyway so.
Jules Chatelain: And mark and I are friends and mark and I were friends and because of mark and I get because of me being quite familiar with story space I got this terrific job.
Jules Chatelain: At relax working for Dan bricklin The co creator of the electronic spreadsheet so in case you're wondering about the career path of.
Jules Chatelain: of a person who helps inventors you don't get a different job title you just get passed on by word of mouth and more and more interesting inventors okay.
Jules Chatelain: So that's my so fine like in my cups bragging I go, you know I worked at the human genome project, and I was there when we declared operational completeness, and you know, and you know I work for the.
Jules Chatelain: spreadsheet guy, and all this stuff see so that's my that's my other life that this is a break from Okay, but I just want to say that mark so erotica so i'm totally pro erotica and of course i'm very involved with fanfiction.
Jules Chatelain: Or, I have been one of my other clients was a oh three for a while they weren't happy with my with what I did, but I did mediation when the panel of Eo three was fighting with itself okay so and I.
Jules Chatelain: You know I my my my career has had so many interesting mistakes Okay, but I just I just want to say that you could you could have an all erotica or an all fanfic or an all Omega verse pod and it's just it's just we learned that you just have to be a lot clearer about.
Jules Chatelain: And boy, that was the progression anyway i'm just saying Dean, and this was very and this all happened when dina was sharing her papers and she had.
Jules Chatelain: I don't remember when this happened, but the point is dina saying that I missed my chance I didn't and, but I also don't want to edit my erotica just for you know it's for me, it was a public, it was a.
Jules Chatelain: anyway.
Deena Larsen: That makes sense in.
Deena Larsen: It yes and in the chat I think.
Deena Larsen: I think you're absolutely right tools we can have different bright parts for different types of content, and I think really cool like right pop for erotica would be great.
Deena Larsen: i'm also thinking yeah we did have ground rules and they were pretty clear, but what we didn't have and what we didn't maintain his consequences um and i'm thinking not only for content, but for not participation.
Deena Larsen: And some of that is bandwidth some of that is it's expensive for folks um.
Deena Larsen: I think I want to focus on the upside though I was really everybody met their deadlines.
Deena Larsen: This is it.
Jules Chatelain: Every you know and and people were in Grad school or you know dan's and undergrad or whatever, I mean you know that people met their deadlines and they were they made a real effort to show up.
Deena Larsen: And I.
Jules Chatelain: think that was partly because of you and I, being so over serious about all the agreements and stuff and it was also the also the people, the pioneers that we attracted that came so you know hard.
Deena Larsen: yeah we had an still a group of people.
Deena Larsen: That was.
Jules Chatelain: Okay, I get I get so I did this has been really helpful because this is giving me more perspective on how we could do it better next time, of course, I want to do it better next time.
Jules Chatelain: And I want to be supportive if somebody else wants to be the moderator organizer I mean it was very easy you just sort of, say, remember, everybody this Sunday, we have live of them, you know.
Jules Chatelain: I would be happy to help them, and because we need to train that skill, a lot to you know that's something that if if if divine inspiration has not struck me.
Jules Chatelain: But I can still help and i've also thought of something though that's a problem with fanfiction, which is that fanfiction already has this elaborate series of beta.
Jules Chatelain: stuff and it has these cultural assumptions within it, so in a way, if you had fanfic fanfiction right pod would not be that outstanding.
Jules Chatelain: And it'd be sort of interesting to have people bring fanfiction to a regular right pod or maybe people could specify when they were signing up for right pod that they find trump fan fiction triggering or I don't know so anyway.
Deena Larsen: We yeah we could.
Deena Larsen: We could work it out, I didn't want to talk about, especially with Clara and Sonia and Richard.
Deena Larsen: If next time suppose this didn't suppose you had somebody who really didn't participate, and you have said, oh, I need my piece to be read.
Deena Larsen: it's a common problem in writers groups um How would you suggest we handle it do we need to have an.
Deena Larsen: A ground role do we what.
Jules Chatelain: Our console your back to consequences yeah okay.
Jules Chatelain: i'll just listen to.
yeah.
Samya Roy: I think what we should do is every author must.
Samya Roy: Not only read not only share their work, but also make it a commitment that this spend time talking about someone else's work or commenting on someone else's work that if you don't.
Samya Roy: comment on someone else's work your work will not be dismissed.
As yeah.
Samya Roy: And if and if your work goes first, if you if you have the luxury that your work goes first and then you get all the feedback and then you disappear.
Samya Roy: Then, that would be just, we have to take that in good faith that that person will not be true, but if that person does.
Not.
Samya Roy: Pay respect to the commitment of others, then we simply don't take that person in for the remainder of the thing and for future collaboration, etc, etc, there has to be some faith involved otherwise nothing will work.
Deena Larsen: That makes sense and honestly that's the way we sort of do it and the government research is OK, if you don't have you get one research project.
Deena Larsen: If you don't complete it and don't get everything in your never considered for another research grant again kind of blackballed then yeah we can definitely do that.
Deena Larsen: and high.
Deena Larsen: We just basically for the person who just came in whose name I can't see we're talking about right parts and we had six people.
Deena Larsen: develop their works within a writing group and we're talking about how that can work for the next time so welcome.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: may add to what we were just discussing on like you know what happens when people didn't do their share like the feedback.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know, you know, I think that that also specifying what other kinds of feedback, because, at times, you know.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: We can we had very limited time to speak, a fact that most of us, we did exchange notes afterwards so so written feedback on, for example, as someone who was stuck in traffic in New York.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Trying to make it on.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: time I was like I thought that I would pick it up, and I believe I missed dance.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: session, but I did have my notes.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: That I sent, so I think that that you know, like there might be reasons why you kind of doing the might be reasons why you know the connection dies or something like that, but but also like Okay, if you cannot make it to the session itself, make sure to share your notes i'm.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: i'm very, very grateful for everybody's notes after the the know after the session is not only a thing that we all have more to say i'm.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Now we actually that we actually wrote a thing that there might be other things where.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: People might feel self conscious of like saying it in public, to other people like my you know given like a private note I think that's another way to deal with you know.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: i'm all for like erotica whatever like controversial topics, I think that we should not shower shower away but it's true that that.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: The the idea of the content warning or like saying hey you know, this is, you know, a work that is going to have this or that.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: um and something where like maybe if people feel comfortable discussing it, you know in in a conversation that is fine, but that's also part of the contract.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: But there might be things that might have come up in a conversation that you know somebody might want to send a note about.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And not do it, you know as openly um you know, maybe there's somebody who has like a personal and trigger that know might not be something that they want to.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: reveal to the audience, but they might want to kind of give a poke to the offer um so so think that there's It is complicated is it's it's kind of.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: we're never going to get it completely right.
Deena Larsen: No, not.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: feeling okay with not being absolutely completely right but kind of establishing what constitutes feedback, one of the forms of feedback.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: What are you know what do we do with some types of content um and you know how much you want to share and one of these, I think that that the.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: What I enjoyed about the right part one of the many things I enjoyed was having the safe space where we could discuss things and and safe volta means dealing with difficult topics and controversial topics and.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: And kind of laying the groundwork in advance the saying it's like well, but I think that, knowing that.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: From the works, I think that that what happened to us is that we didn't realize until we got to reading and I was this guy oh oh wait i'm so think that that's that's part of the the the kind of upfront work that needs to be done before right but.
Deena Larsen: I think that's really valuable yeah.
Deena Larsen: Oh sorry.
Richard Holeton: I just going to tying that back into your.
Richard Holeton: original question, and this thread dina about how that situation was handled.
Richard Holeton: So the writer got.
Richard Holeton: A lot of feedback that he may not have expected.
Richard Holeton: That is also valuable, that is, you know valuable to the writer, you know he might not have suspected Oh, this is how.
Richard Holeton: You know, some readers are going to react to this material, I never got to the material I didn't get that far in the work to get to the material where that you know that that some you know were.
Richard Holeton: disturbed by bothered by and, and so I saw that you know things sub texturally before that that we're trending in that direction we're speaking in generalities here that were sort of.
Richard Holeton: You know trending in that direction and that's.
Richard Holeton: But I found other things that I found charming I guess in in the in the in the in the stylistically charming, and so, so the writer ended up getting this you know kind of incredible variety of feedback, including some frankly, you know.
Deena Larsen: hey it's.
Richard Holeton: not really okay for for for us and also some here's something that you know that you know to work with I don't know.
Deena Larsen: I think that makes sense to, and I think yeah putting down ground rules and it's also like, as you say, the writer may not know that it's triggering and a lot of this was international cultural expectations, so he Winnie i'm just to orient you, we do have 15 minutes left.
Deena Larsen: But.
Deena Larsen: What had.
Jules Chatelain: me in the chat Oh well, or maybe.
Deena Larsen: Excellent okay yeah I haven't been looking at the chat for a moment, but yeah we're basically figuring out the best way to do right pods and there are pros and cons um.
Deena Larsen: But we.
Jules Chatelain: We would love questions actually if you what attracted you about this Winnie what attracted you about this.
Jules Chatelain: Why did you decide to drop in, and do you have questions for us because these were the people who participated in the experimental feedback project, I mean do you have work in progress that you're looking for feedback about you know that sort of thing.
Winnie Soon: I guess it's because i'm not I just don't mean, so I don't know much about the context about feedback research, so I just want to clarify maybe is.
Winnie Soon: Is it this this kind of feedback is related to like the work in progress that you are making works or doing research, I mean like academic scientific writing.
Winnie Soon: And, and how how the materials, because I also work with a lot of like cactus of material or data as material or coding so material or weapons right.
Winnie Soon: Is it like you are discussing about how these ways of working with materials as our as a form of informing the further development of your conceptual thinking or writing is it this direction or oh it's not.
Jules Chatelain: It is very much that direction, it is, but it is specifically for creative works in progress.
Jules Chatelain: Like including generated code works or whatever, in other words, if you have a piece of something, and you would like a reaction okay i'm.
Jules Chatelain: Back in the day when people would do a new work, they would bring someone by the hand.
Jules Chatelain: over to the computer and they would sit with them and they'd say well first poke on this and then do this and I put a special feature there so click there and we would tell you know walk them through their work.
Jules Chatelain: But this was in the 80s i'm talking about before the dawn of time okay so, but what we have now what we wanted was the feeling of you know passionate.
Jules Chatelain: Creators looking at each other's work, but without preconceptions Okay, so that you're alone with it.
Jules Chatelain: And if you don't know about the Easter eggs you don't know about the hot what you don't know where to click, and so what kind of it's sort of more like people would be.
Jules Chatelain: experiencing it in the wild Okay, and that is what so we were taught what i'm passionate about is trying to get usable actionable feedback on works in progress, and again I learned a lot from this, so it was my research, and it was their creative work.
Jules Chatelain: Basically, and I forget what I was gonna say.
Winnie Soon: but also in terms of this actionable research.
Winnie Soon: or actionable feedback, is it necessarily need to eat more is it your own feedback loop.
Winnie Soon: Or you are more focusing on.
Winnie Soon: Like Okay, I have a prototype or I have something working progress off the line and then to see.
Winnie Soon: It the second one participant observer right Yes, he people's interest in order to explore and whether you're.
Winnie Soon: You know, as an artist, you also have something that you want to express or essential meaning, for example, I think, they also different ways.
Winnie Soon: Some artists, maybe like have a solid concept or or, meaning that they want to deliver right they want to use it to get it, but also in conceptual art, for example, like in a way, like it doesn't really matter whether the audience get something else you know so is this kind of.
Jules Chatelain: Well, it was.
Winnie Soon: Also, a problem, opening up like what might not be thinking with you, otherwise is is a different ways of thinking, otherwise I think.
Deena Larsen: yeah.
Jules Chatelain: I think you have it, I think you have it very much in the that it's it's reactions to work in progress.
Jules Chatelain: And the one thing we realized, is that we need to order, it was feedback we need to have an artist statement go with when you're giving a work for evaluation.
Jules Chatelain: You have an artist statement that you open later, first of all, you interact with the work and then you open the artist statement afterward because a lot of our feedback started with I don't know we were going for here.
Deena Larsen: You know what part of this too we need we were focusing on creative work so everybody brought a creative work in progress and we all reacted to it i'm wondering with Winnie oh she's gone, but i'm wondering with Hannah know.
Deena Larsen: When user would that sort of right pod work for critical works for academic works journal articles or would it would that be of any value.
Deena Larsen: Especially like PhD kids are some kids i'm so sorry students and like samia tues working on the same idea.
Hannah Ackermans: Oh definitely during my PhD also had like group sessions, where for course you get put into a group of four and a once a month you meet him.
Hannah Ackermans: Read each other's dropped in progress to help each other further I would be interested in doing something like that, where it's a mixture of artists and scholars so did you have a.
Hannah Ackermans: Yes, we're yeah.
Hannah Ackermans: I.
Hannah Ackermans: would be fun to have artists react to your academic work and the other way around, maybe.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: If I can add to this.
Deena Larsen: When.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: I was working at MIT and we did have a weekly research meeting, where we were sharing work in progress as and actually was the.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Yes, where you started this, it was the Scandinavian mouse model, have you read something, and you had your opponents that's that's my call them, we can, like the call opposition thing.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: we're all friends, but yeah like having two people who committed to read the paper in depth, probably because there were experts or it was something that they could.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Give interesting feedback on and it's also very structured and yeah it can work, I think, but the difference, though, is that when you're sharing research you're getting a kind of check in on whether you would make the cut or like are you living up to academic standards.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: which you know it's like it's part of the training and I was a was a PhD candidate and then a postdoc then so he'd helped me a lot of kind of like seeing how.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: to write for the academic audience, I find that, with the right pod what what help I think myself, but I think it was true of other people is finding the audience.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Who can read my like what is the audience reaction when and the kind of variety of audience reactions which is not what you would not that.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know in academia, also have a variety of reactions, of course, but if think that it's something that is might be more heterogeneous and there are not.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Like standards and that's the beauty of it that's Basically, this is why I was writing you know I do enough like academic.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: Know reports and things like that was that this was very liberating but but finding the audience and sharing working getting that kind of.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: You know the reaction, rather than the feedback is like that reaction is what's valuable and having a safe space for a reaction versus am I going to get this published or not a thing, but that's that's that's the beauty of it.
Deena Larsen: I think.
Hannah Ackermans: If.
Hannah Ackermans: You just follow up i'm sorry.
Deena Larsen: yeah I don't.
Hannah Ackermans: know I just wants it and that's like one of the reasons, maybe that I would want to do it with academic work, because it can be so narrow but it doesn't have to be you can send in like Oh, I really want to.
Hannah Ackermans: publish in a more mainstream magazine or run to make a blog post about my research and see how it resonates with people who are not academics, for example, it would be great to have, like all this research that we're doing not for the three people that.
Hannah Ackermans: Are on the pair of you, and then hopefully five after if.
Hannah Ackermans: When it's funny.
Deena Larsen: yeah exactly um.
Deena Larsen: We have about six minutes left.
Deena Larsen: And I wondered how we could make these ideas into reality for the next right pod I know all of us have very limited time and spoons but what do you recommend could we propose.
Deena Larsen: A call for moderators and have like a moderator class.
Deena Larsen: call for volunteers, what would help get these ideas into fruition i'm perfectly willing to moderate another creative writing one i'd be happy to but i'm one person.
Deena Larsen: How could we do this.
Deena Larsen: We could do a moderator.
A moderator training course.
Deena Larsen: Okay.
Deena Larsen: deafening silence figure.
Jules Chatelain: I had an outburst I have I get too excited with dope mean, and I have to turn off my camera you know that's self regulating and there's a lot of.
Jules Chatelain: People I mean i'm i'm happy to help train moderators I mean the The other thing is I loved I feel like I will always be friends not friends, I will be some kind of friend with you guys all forever.
Jules Chatelain: And, but we don't need to have the same group till.
Jules Chatelain: Next time, you know it will depend on you know we will always have this great thing and we don't have the same group next time and I don't want to make it to institutionalize I want to make a.
Jules Chatelain: I love the remix culture, and I want to put I want to have the viral pattern available out there for people to remix and they can contact me and I will I would be happy to do a moderator class that's within my spoons you know but um you know but.
Jules Chatelain: In a way, sometimes we there are so many crises that we you know, having a moderator class takes time, you know people are fighting many pricey so anyway whoops I think I better turn off my camera again anyway.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: So.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: I think that Hannah just mentioned this in the chat, but we do exactly what I was thinking it's like well, those of us who've been in the right pod you know we can make this viral, as I say now.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: If we're willing to keep talking about viruses, but but yeah like we can spread it out and, like those of us who work here, we can also.
Clara Fernandez-Vara: lead some others, and I will have more work to share but, but I will be happy also to moderate and others, you know I learned from everything so it's always fun to kind of go out of my comfort zone I don't know about the others, but yeah I would love to be more of this.
Deena Larsen: And i'm.
Richard Holeton: just going to suggest that would that would that whatever happens that dina and jewels be involved in.
Richard Holeton: Because you know you and.
Richard Holeton: sort of shape, you know, but what might be come up for example if the whole elo involvement i'm of two minds about that, I mean if you if you if elo offers a writing workshop for Isla.
Richard Holeton: there's going to be 1000 people well 100 people lined up right to to sign up for so so it would seem like.
Richard Holeton: It it might need to be several things which is a larger effort so it'd be like it elo offers three right pods this.
Richard Holeton: One on erotic you know one you know or fanfiction now, one on one with higher expectations, one would lower expectation, you know and so it's kind of a major effort and we'd be asking a lot of you guys.
Richard Holeton: And so.
Richard Holeton: yeah.
Richard Holeton: It would be great but.
Jules Chatelain: You reminded me of a really another good point which is we didn't we weren't sufficiently clear that the work had to be electronic and interactive in some way.
Jules Chatelain: Okay, there was that so that is also a thing that we just I just assumed, I assume that someone I met through yellow will be electronic and interact will be will have some flavor of game, or you know, whatever and I want to reassure you that my era.
Jules Chatelain: My erotica was interactive because I, you know it had you know it had 17 nodes and it had this complicated thing I mean it wasn't big.
Jules Chatelain: None of my pieces are big they're all trying out the platform, but anyway, the point is something with with absolutely no interaction is is could be handled in some other group, so we have to make that clear.
Jules Chatelain: But thank you for your kind words about no i'm i'm very happy to be very happy.
Richard Holeton: Maybe you could get some support for me oh right either you know some something that's a combination of tangible and.
Jules Chatelain: You know, an intense bandwidth yeah.
Jules Chatelain: Dan I each day we.
Jules Chatelain: Do you and I have supported our our habit with our day jobs, so we have we both have jobs in tech or for large values of that anyway.
Richard Holeton: All right, maybe even intangible is.
Richard Holeton: Maybe it's a you know.
Jules Chatelain: yeah.
Richard Holeton: yeah.
Jules Chatelain: But, but always remembering Sammy is point that you don't need to be a member, that this is a super gateway experience and, in particular.
Jules Chatelain: If you don't if you're going to a conference and you don't know a lot of people what better to do a right pod first and then you at least have some people who have your back you know kind of thing.
Jules Chatelain: Alright, so how are we on time, we are one minute, now the last minute is celebration, and when he.
Jules Chatelain: You I loved it that you came in at the end and and asked us to quit and asked us to clarify.
Jules Chatelain: That was very, very helpful.
Deena Larsen: Maybe work together to.
celebrate.
Deena Larsen: yeah.
Jules Chatelain: Okay we'll see, you will see you all at the closing ceremony.
Deena Larsen: One moment everybody smile for the camera for you.